{{page.title}} 

The advances of modern technology has allowed society to access an unprecedented amount of information. Typically, when the word data is used people tend to think of large sets of numbers, possibly involving finance or government-funded studies, i.e. what many would describe as “boring”, and something that might not be applicable to everyday life. What people do not realize is data is anything but dull. If you are even the tiniest bit interested about any subject, I can guarantee you there is not only a whole slew of data around it, but data you can actually use.

I feel it’s safe to assume you all like romantic relationships, or at very least enjoy canoodling with someone you are attracted to. Increasingly people are turning to online dating sites to help fulfill this need. Well, services like OkCupid.com use data so people can use these sites to maximize dates and hookups. They do this by providing details on factors such as what type of pictures one should put up in order to maximize attractiveness, what is the most effective way to message someone for the first time, and even provides information on what certain races are interested in. Users can employ these statistics to use these websites in the most efficient manner possible to gain dates and the late-night fun time that hopefully accompanies them.

Not into online dating? Already in a relationship? No problem, because there are plenty of other sites that are just as useful. Fantasy football has become as American as Sylvester Stallone, well doing just about anything Sylvester Stallone does. Each year websites such as FantasyFootballNerd.com, Yahoo Fantasy Sports, and espn.com provide people with a wealth of data they can use when making their roster choices. As you may know, this information includes projected stats given recent games, opponent, and on league rules. People have been able to expand on this information in some interesting ways. Last year, Greg Baugues wrote a blog post on how he was able to play “money ball” by utilizing existing information from a couple of websites to build an information dashboard on Ruby on Rails that selected only pertinent information whilst ignoring the useless statistics to select the best players from week to week. The result? He won the championship that year, which is particularly remarkable considering it was his first year playing fantasy football, was not a very big football fan, and did not know too much about the sport. Thus, using hard data he was able to have a significant advantage over avid fans of the sport who relied more on general knowledge and their gut instincts.

Sports not your thing? Then maybe politics are. You can spend hours listening to one commentator or another, almost all of whom seem to be particularly biased and sure that their side will win out on a particular issue. For example, I recall speaking with one liberal political commentator after Chris Christie’s original election who stated in extreme confidence that he would be a one-term governor (to avoid any perceived bias I recall many conservatives saying the same about Obama). Excluding any major scandal, it seems highly unlikely that this will be the case. So, instead of listening to these people who really do not have any more additional insights than the average person, you can rely on data in an attempt to predict the future. Statistician Nate Silver exemplified this skill by developing data-driven algorithms to correctly predict 49 out of the 50 states and all 35 Senate races of the 2008 presidential election. In the 2012 elections he was able to continue on his remarkable success, predicting all 50 states in the 2012 Presidential election, and 31 out of the 33 of the Senate contests. Nate Silver is a particularly good example of what data can do for you, as it helped allow him to successfully leave his position as an economic consultant, a career he hated so much that when asked what his biggest regret in life was he responded "Spending four years of my life at a job I didn't like". Nate Silver was able to use statistics in a variety of ways, from making a living playing online poker to creating PETCOTA a system for predicting Major League Baseball performance, to his current positions in politics and writing.

Data is an awesome part of life. It helps you win in relationships, win in fantasy sports, and as Nick Silver demonstrates, win in life. These are endless opportunities for what a person can do with the right stats. As society continues to become more and more driven, this trend will only continue. 
